This section is about controlling access to computer systems applications and data.
By the end of this section,
you'll be able to explain parts of identity and access control and
identify common identity and access control protection techniques.
Think about when you log into a computer or application.
It starts with your user ID which is also known
as an identifier which lets the computer know who you are.
This is usually an e-mail address or
some form of your name like first initial, last name.
But how do you prove it's really you?
I mean, figuring out someone's login ID is pretty easy.
That's why we need a second part.
Something that proves it's really you also known as authentication.
This is often a password, or a pin,
or on some devices like your smartphone,
it can be your fingerprint or face for biometrics.
Third way is that device itself that can also be used to prove it's you.
All of this is to confirm to
a remote computer that it's really you and not some imposter.
In a nutshell, this is what identity and access control is all about.
Proving who you are.
For stronger security and to ensure it's really you we use
something known as multi-factor authentication or MFA.
This is something you know like your password,
something you are like your fingerprint, or voice,
or even facial recognition or something you have like a smart card or smartphone.
Many websites like my bank now use multi-factor authentication.
I'll sign in with my user ID and then password and
then get a code sent to my phone that I then need to enter.
So it's something I know and something I have.
There is another part of access control, authorization.
This answers the questions of,
what should you be allowed to access once you login with your user ID and password?
Can you see everything on a network or just certain computers or applications?
What should you be allowed to do?
Managers in the organization should answer these questions.
Authorization can also be based on what you need to do with the object,
which is your access rights.
Do you need to only see or read the file,
or do you need to make changes to it,
or delete or execute it if it's a program?
All of these permissions can be set for
individual items and for individual users within an operating system.
Authorization limits access based on the principle of least privilege.
Only have access to the stuff you need to do your job.
Let me give you quick examples.
First, if you're flying and you need to go through TSA security,
you provide your ticket,
which is your identifier.
It shows you have a need to be in the secure area of the airport.
You also need to provide something to authenticate it's really you.
An official document like your passport or driver's license.
Then you need to be authorized to
a specific area of the airport and then a specific plane.
You're only allowed to ride on the plane not fly it.
That's also a type of authorization.
The equivalent in computers is your user ID
which is your identifier tied to your password or pin,
or maybe even your fingerprint.
Then you're allowed to access specific data or
files or applications within that particular computer system.
You'll now practice setting identity and access control configuration in the exercise.